---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1"
date:   2019-09-26 14:11:11 +0700
categories: living
---
Just over a week ago, I left the US to live abroad. There are several reasons I wanted to make this move, chief among them a desire for new experiences, low cost of living, and total unfamiliarity. Call it foolish youth or a first world problem, but I was bored. So I made a change. 

My first stop is Chiang Mai, Thailand. Getting here was a 2 day affair - I boarded a flight from New York to Hong Kong, then transferred to Bangkok. Made it through Thai immigration no problem, despite lacking an exit itinerary from Thailand (which they border guards often ask for). 

After landing in Bangkok at 1am, I decided to stay the night and take an afternoon flight to Chiang Mai the next day. When I arrived at a hostel to crash, the first thing I noticed were shoes piled up outside the hostel, right next to a homeless man sleeping outside. I knew wearing shoes inside homes is usually forbidden in Asian countries, but this took me by surprise - why wouldn't this guy just snag himself a new pair of shoes from the pot? There was a better selection than the SoHo Adidas store right next to him. 

That was my first inkling of the friendliness and culture of this country. 

The Housing Situation
======

    First order of business was finding housing. I spent my first night at a guesthouse that I literally found on Google Maps. Then I rode my scooter around looking for apartment buildings, and asking about availability in every one I found. Being low season in September (it's "rainy season" which so far looks like it means it rains twice a week for 30 minutes), there was plenty of availability. However, my guy at Santitham Guesthouse hooked it up fat with a great deal for my 25 days in Chiang Mai. I didn't want to commit to anything longer than a month, to keep my schedule flexible for November (which I may be traveling often during). Advice: just walk in to buildings, use online resources for research. And stay at Santitham Guesthouse - great deal and peaceful place in an otherwise bustling part of the city. If I had a referral link, it would go here --> 

The First Night
======

    Wonked on the 12 hour timechange, I was starting to wake up when I went out to visit a coworker at a jazz bar around 10pm. For anonymity's sake, we'll call him Tim. Anyway Tim is a super chill dude who has spent almost 2.5 years living in Chiang Mai, so suffice it to say he knows the ways of living here as a foreigner while working abroad. After the obligatory dap and hug, we chatted about life here over a few beers. His first comment: why was I holding my helmet? I failed to notice that _everyone_ left their helmet hanging over a mirror on their scooter. Clearly I presumed that without a lock, the helmet had a decent chance of walking off on its own one night. Not in Chiang Mai, Tim assured me. Through one week, I have found that guidance to be overwhelmingly true. People leave possessions around all the time - shoes outside, laptops on outdoor cafe tables, bags on benches. 

    This city is overwhelmingly safe when it comes to crime. Traffic safety is a whole different game, however. 

Riding Around
======

    I am discovering a passion for two-wheeled vehicles recently. There is something addicting about flying around cars with nothing but a hot engine between your legs. As one does in Chiang Mai, I rented a 115cc scooter to get around. The city is barely walkable - sidewalks barely exist, and when they do they're normally dirt or, if you're particularly unlucky, mud. So a scooter is a must. 

    My friend Tim also warned me about the occasional traffic stops and police shakedowns of foreigners. Thailand has a long history of leniency to foreigners riding scooters with zero training - but they are recently cracking down to ensure people know what the hell they're doing on a bike. And, the revenue doesn't hurt either. 

    Well, I came prepared. For other reasons, I had already obtained an international driving permit from AAA and I had my drivers license with a prominent M for motorcycle. So when my first checkpoint came on the ring road around the Old City, I was ready for a quick and easy resolution to the matter. 

    > Driver's license?

    > Yes, right here. 

    > Oh, but you need an international driving permit to use this in Thailand. You'll have to pay a fine. 

    > No, I have that right here. 

    > Oh... okay but I see here your government has not endorsed you for motorcycles on this international permit. 

    > Well that must be a mistake - you see the M on my license? Class M, for motorcycles.

    > No, that's not valid here. 

    > Then why did you ask for it? 

    > *Silence*. Come over here and pay the fine. Then you can ride for another 3 days - just keep your ticket with you. 

    So I paid my 500 baht fine and went on my way. I called AAA to ask what went wrong - I brought my class M license to their office specifically to get an international driving permit that would work for riding motorcycles. 

    Sure enough, it was their mistake, and they were nice enough to pay $120 to "overnight" (still takes 3 days) me a new permit. Shoutout to the Sonoma AAA office. 

    I'll stick with my scooter for this month, but I may upgrade to a proper motorcycle after that and invest in some better protection than a pair of jeans and a "brain bucket" (as my motorcycle safety instructor deemed terrible helmets). That will help me keep up with a boss biker lady I met who lives on the other side of Doi Suthep. 

A Night Out 
======

    On Saturday, I picked up the phone and texted Tim's friend Mary for "one beer" - we met at Zoe's, had a beer, and promptly threw back a shot of tequila. The night had begun. We danced at Babylon for a few hours, meeting some travelers from Australia and the UK, a couple of Americans, and a group from Israel. 
    
    Strangely for a city with such high tourism, the bars all close promptly at midnight. However, there are some after hours spots to hit - Mary and two new friends from Australia and the UK headed to Sangdee in Nimman, where we proceeded to smash 4 more shots of tequila over 4 hours and dance to great techno with a cool mix of young locals, American english teachers, washed up white dudes, Australian entrepreneurs and Danish videographers. I stayed til 4, long after the  club turned in to a lounge for Thais chilling with their friends. I'll be back. 

The Food
======

    I've been to Thailand before, but I forgot just how spicy the food can be. On Sunday morning, starving and hungover, I was reminded once again at Som Tam Udon, a spectacular and cheap joint filled with Thai families feasting on traditional Thai and Isan dishes of som tam (papaya salad), larb (minced meat salad), and sticky rice. 

    I had two of the spiciest som tams I've had in my life. My hair was just about standing on end, my lips were buzzing, my tum was rumbling; it was quite an experience. I think I'll do it again tonight. 



