---
layout: post
title:  "Week 2"
date:   2019-10-01 14:11:11 +0700
categories: living
---
So, I live in Thailand now. I thought that would be hard to wrap my head around - I thought I would act like a tourist, be amazed by everything going on, want to see every Wat and take every cooking class. 

To my surprise, I've acclimated very quickly. The scooters darting across the roads, the street food, the language - it's still all very unfamiliar but it isn't mesmerizing like it is when I think of myself as a _tourist_. 

The Work
======
I would be remiss without remarking on the working life here. I've spent a good chunk of my hours at the computer grinding away on projects and [stacking sat][sats]. Since I work mostly with a US-based team, my meetings are all in the middle of the night. I tried working just nights for my first week - starting around 8pm and finishing around 4am - but I ended up sleeping until noon to get a full night, and I didn't like missing out on the mornings in Chiang Mai. This city wakes up early - people are out and about from 8am, and I felt like I was missing that morning vibe by sleeping in until noon every day. 

I'm trying a nap routine now so I still stay up until 4, but I wake up at 9 and nap from 4-6pm. The last couple days have worked pretty well - aside from the fact that my nap is right after Muay Thai class, making it hard to find a position to lie in where my whole body doesn't feel rekt. 

At least my office setup isn't destroying my posture - I brought a mouse from home, snagged a keyboard from a little open-air computer shop for $7, and bought a portable laptop stand for $30. Now I have a swaggy setup at my coworking space. The raised laptop screen is a serious lifehack.

Eating Meat
======
After a 1.5 hour Muay Thai class, my muscles are screaming for some protein (and copious amounts of [Tiger's Balm][tiger]). Usually I go for a meat vendor across the street from my guesthouse for a couple skewers of chicken and sausage (filled with something - have yet to figure out what). When I decided to check out the nearby market for protein instead, something else caught my eye: fried grasshoppers. 

For 20 baht, I had my bag. Without looking at them too long, I took a nice scoop. They're a little juicier than I would have hoped for, but they're actually pretty damn good. They make a nice addition to a rice or noodle dish. 

I thought I was pretty adventurous getting my protein from bugs, but a friend of mine took it to a whole other level at dinner last weekend. 

This guy is almost literally a carnivore - for him, eating rice only happens on "cheat days". So when we went to dinner at The Franco Thai Place (literally the restaurant's name), I wasn't surprised that he ordered a beef tartar. He was raving about it to me a week ago, and I was excited to try it - I will indulge in a carpaccio once in a while. 

What arrived was not what I had in mind. The waitress slapped down what was essentially a half pound burger patty, 100% raw. This wasn't a fancy appetizer to give you a taste of cold, raw meat. This was a full-sized entree of protein and fat. Alongside was a raw egg yolk, garlic, shallots, oil and a few other additions. Of course he refused the side salad, and proceeded to go straight in to this thing. 

I tried a bite - it was actually really good, and no, I didn't get food poisoning from it. 

Drink Up, Pussy!
======
I'm starting to think they put something in the alcohol here, because my hangovers are _wicked_. Either that, or I'm just drinking the cheap stuff. On Friday night, I went out with a few friends I met last weekend, and they set up a "hangout" on the Couchsurfing app so anyone on the app in Chiang Mai could find us. While there are many of these hangouts listed on Couchsurfing in CM, none have more than 2-3 people attending them, and almost every one I've seen has "Josh" attending - we've taken to calling him Josh the Couchsurfing Bot. 

So when we put up the hangout, we didn't expect much to come of it. Boy were we wrong. Enter Mai, a Thai girl with a love for learning English insults. While our group of 4 was all downing double Changs, someone called me a pussy for having the most beer left in my bottle. In my defense, I was already 2 double Changs deep plus a bottle of wine, so I was running out of room in there. Mai quickly picked up "pussy", and proceeded to address me as pussy for the rest of the night - until she looked it up in Google Translate, at which point her jaw dropped and she apologized profusely. We all had a good laugh. 

She also told us many a tourist has walked past her on the street and asked "How much?" - we told her to look them up and down and respond "ah, I am far too expensive for you." So I look forward to hearing about the next tourist she owns. 

The Language
======
I'll admit, speaking with locals has been difficult. Not because of the obvious lack of any knowledge I have of their language (let alone ability to pronounce it), but mostly because of my own hesitance to even try. I know I'll fail, and the looks of confusion aren't fun. But I'll push through it. People love seeing a white guy in a Hawaiian shirt say something other than _hello_ or _thank you_. 

Spending Time
======
I've spend a fair amount of time just on my phone or watching videos since I got here. I have a lot of free time, and it's somewhat hard to meet people with my schedule, so I am spending a decent amount of time just chilling. Guilt creeps up - in this wonderful new place, why am I wasting my time online or reading a book? 

However, if that's how I like spending my time, I'm not going to feel guilty about it. At least I'm spending a whole hell of a lot less cash on just living by being here! 

The Expenses
======
I did a quick tally of my expenses for my 25 day stay here (until I go to the states for a week):
Guesthouse: $333 ($13 / night)
Scooter: $83 ($2.75 / day)
Muay Thai: $160 for 11 classes
Coworking space: $130 ($5.2 / day)
Food, coffee, shopping, excusions, gas: $200 so far ($15/day)

Monthly, I think I'll spend about **$1,200** per month. Throw in a heavy travel budget so I can fly to the beach, rent a proper motorcycle, etc: call it **$2,000** per month. Along with tax savings using Foreign Earned Income Exclusion (0% income tax on up to ~$100k earnings, if you're on foreign soil 330 / 365 days) and no state/city tax, that means I'll save about 6.5x what I was saving by living in NYC. 

Happy to chat about the tax situation, remote work, and low cost of living locations if you're interested...

[sats]: https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=stacking%20sats
[tiger]:https://www.scmp.com/lifestyle/health-beauty/article/2133311/tiger-balm-story-how-ointment-every-ailment-was-created-fell